Readme.md, before:

# Supercomputing-review
This repository is part of MLOPS project's documentation, the repository of the original project can be found here: https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform <br></br>

This repository consist of four parts:
- [Reviews](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Notebook%20reviews.md) on the notebook files in the original repository's studying section<br></br>
- [Summaries](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Summary.md) of these notebook files for easier learning experience<br></br>
- [Markdown files](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/tree/main/Markdown%20Files) converted from the notebook files for easier reading experience<br></br>
- [Installation instructions](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Simplified%20instructions%20for%20OSS%20Platform.md) for OSS-MLOPS-PLATFORM CLI-tool<br></br>

If you want to learn more about the original project, please visit the original repository linked above.

## Where to get started
If you want to get an overview of the notebook files and topics that are covered in them, start from the summaries. The installation instructions are for setting up the OSS-MLOPS-PLATFORM CLI-tool, which is used in the notebook files. The markdown files are converted from the notebook files for easier reading experience. We have also included [installation](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Installation.md) file for setting up the kind cluster and Kubeflow/KFP installation, which can be useful because the current situation with the notebook files is that the installation instructions (that start from part 5) are inadequate at the moment.

Finally, the reviews contain feedback on the notebook files and suggestions for improvements. The reviews can be useful for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the notebook files and for getting ideas for further study. If you are interested in the development of the original project, the reviews can also provide insights into the user experience and potential areas for improvement.

## Note for next students
The original Multicloud repository and it's contents might have evolved from the point when Jukalekvi and Tiriele last made changes to it on 12.12.2025. This is the reason why a fork was created to show the old version of the repository that was in [this state](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform) when the review was passed on to other developers. 

The point we managed to get to was following:
- Review the first 6 parts of the documentary
- Make markdown files of the 8 first notebooks files for the next group (for easier reading experience)
- Create the installation guide for easier Cpouta experience
- Get the installation working to the part where all of the original pods of the cluster have been installed

Next steps and tips for the next group:
- Create the installation and try to go further than we were able, next step for us would have been the installation of Ray
- Read and try to understand the documentation as best as possible
- Take your time getting familiar with the technologies. There are many things to learn and understand
- Keep close contact to the creator of the original repository and the notebook files
- Sometimes there are updates that outdate the instructions in the official documentation. In these situations explore the web and make sure the instructions are also updated
- Have a positive attidude, these technologies are not the easiest to understand

Commit message:

Enhance documentation with next steps and tips
Added tips for future contributors and emphasized the importance of understanding documentation.

Readme.md, after:

# Supercomputing-review
This repository is part of MLOPS project's documentation, the repository of the original project can be found here: https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform <br></br>

This repository consist of four parts:
- [Reviews](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Notebook%20reviews.md) on the notebook files in the original repository's studying section<br></br>
- [Summaries](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Summary.md) of these notebook files for easier learning experience<br></br>
- [Markdown files](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/tree/main/Markdown%20Files) converted from the notebook files for easier reading experience<br></br>
- [Installation instructions](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Simplified%20instructions%20for%20OSS%20Platform.md) for OSS-MLOPS-PLATFORM CLI-tool<br></br>

If you want to learn more about the original project, please visit the original repository linked above.

## Where to get started
If you want to get an overview of the notebook files and topics that are covered in them, start from the summaries. The installation instructions are for setting up the OSS-MLOPS-PLATFORM CLI-tool, which is used in the notebook files. The markdown files are converted from the notebook files for easier reading experience. We have also included [installation](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/Supercomputing-review/blob/main/Installation.md) file for setting up the kind cluster and Kubeflow/KFP installation, which can be useful because the current situation with the notebook files is that the installation instructions (that start from part 5) are inadequate at the moment.

Finally, the reviews contain feedback on the notebook files and suggestions for improvements. The reviews can be useful for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the notebook files and for getting ideas for further study. If you are interested in the development of the original project, the reviews can also provide insights into the user experience and potential areas for improvement.

## Note for next students
The original Multicloud repository and it's contents might have evolved from the point when Jukalekvi and Tiriele last made changes to it on 12.12.2025. This is the reason why a fork was created to show the old version of the repository that was in [this state](https://github.com/Softala-MLOPS/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform) when the review was passed on to other developers. 

The point we managed to get to was following:
- Review the first 6 parts of the documentary
- Make markdown files of the 8 first notebooks files for the next group (for easier reading experience)
- Create the installation guide for easier Cpouta experience
- Get the installation working to the part where all of the original pods of the cluster have been installed

Next steps and tips for the next group:
- Create the installation and try to go further than we were able, next step for us would have been the installation of Ray
- Continue this documentation when the next parts are released. If you have any ideas how to make this repository better, feel free to change things up around here
- Read and try to understand the documentation as best as possible
- Take your time getting familiar with the technologies. There are many things to learn and understand
- Keep close contact to the creator of the original repository and the notebook files
- Sometimes there are updates that outdate the instructions in the official documentation. In these situations explore the web and make sure the instructions are also updated
- Have a positive attidude, these technologies are not the easiest to understand
