Review on Tutorial for integration part.md, before:

This review covers the tutorials on integrating distributed computing in MLOps. There are 6 parts.

- [Move to part 1](#part-1)
- [Move to part 2](#part-2)
- [Move to part 3](#part-3)
- [Move to part 4](#part-4)
- [Move to part 5](#part-5)
- [Part 6](#part-6) coming soon!

# Part 1 (estimated time: 4h + 2,5h)

[Link to part 1](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_1.ipynb)

## Summary

- Defining concepts being used and the terminology behind every important concept
- Tells the meaning behind the documentation
- Explained why Python was chosen as the coding language
- Explaining the use of JupyterLab
- Explaining the use of Pydantic
- Explaining the use of YAML
- Docker setup

## What works

Huang:
- Defining concepts at the start clearly (Allas, Mycsc account etc.)
- Specific versions of dependencies mentioned in case of problems and solutions to them
- Examples of dictionaries

Jukka:
- The lists of separated system integrations and enviroment tools are really good
- The conclusion to choose certain technologies (for example Python) were clearly justifyed in the document
- Examples of usage of technologies in the document were good

## Suggested improvements

Huang:
- Perhaps naming the hyperlinks? (The useful links)
- Small typos like "cloud enviroment"
- Commands highlighted
- If abbreviations are used, would be nice to be included in the defining part
- If there is time, screenshots or guidevideos usually help visually, especially to complete newbies

Jukka:
- Naming could be done on the links in the notebook file of the useful material lists
- Not all of the examples aren't completely clear in every step (Pydantic and YAML)
- Simplified and more visual presentations or animations could work for the data scientist who are going to be using these platforms
- We could have a hierarcical view of the technologies and the correlations between them

## Questions
- Why do we need YAML & Pydantic in the project (What does the JSON validation and YAML's pydantic validation mean?)?

# Part 2 (estimated time: 2h + 1h)

[Link to part 2](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_2.ipynb)

## Summary
- Explanation of FastAPI and how Submitter and Kubernetes Forwarder communicate through the Uvicorn server
- Explanation of the FastApi logs, application file structure and important parts of the fastApi. Document also tells how APIRouters and their routes work
- Docker Compose explained and how to use it
- Redis explained and how to use it
- Examples of using the created/stored Redis pickled data 

## What works

Huang:
- The structure of separating the application into smaller files, easier to pinpoint possible issues
- The useful materials themselves are nice and clear

Jukka: 
- How to check localhost and the fastapi logs is valuable help
- Explaining of the fastapi is done very well. The important parts list is good
- Examples of how to use the commands are clear
- The entire document is much more clearer than the first one because there are fewer new technologies and the correlation between everything is much more clearer

## Suggested improvements

Huang:
- A bit confusing at first where commands should be typed, what directory etc. (initial installation or some separate app?)
- Concrete examples or more explanation on different factors, difficult to imagine without prior experience
- Naming conventions on "useful material", step-by-step guiding because initial assumption is just "extra material"
- What are the things in braces for? (Between the Redis configurations)
- Re-enacting steps should bring similar results each time

Jukka:
- The examples could include videos and animations
- Summary of the most important things in the end of the document

# Part 3 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 3](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_3.ipynb)

## Summary

- Celery with Redis works as a message broker, automating interactions between separate containers and systems
- Flower enables easier monitoring and debugging of Celery tasks
- Celery Beat enables scheduling of Celery tasks
- Explaining the use of Microservice Architectures

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 4 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 4](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_4.ipynb)

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 5 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 5](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_5.ipynb)

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 6 (estimated time: )

Coming soon!

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements

Commit message:

Revise estimated times and add questions in review
Updated estimated times for parts 1 and 2, added questions for clarity.

Review on Tutorial for integration part.md, after:

This review covers the tutorials on integrating distributed computing in MLOps. There are 6 parts.

- [Move to part 1](#part-1)
- [Move to part 2](#part-2)
- [Move to part 3](#part-3)
- [Move to part 4](#part-4)
- [Move to part 5](#part-5)
- [Part 6](#part-6) coming soon!

# Part 1 (estimated time: H:4h; J:2,5h; Together:1,5h)

[Link to part 1](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_1.ipynb)

## Summary

- Defining concepts being used and the terminology behind every important concept
- Tells the meaning behind the documentation
- Explained why Python was chosen as the coding language
- Explaining the use of JupyterLab
- Explaining the use of Pydantic
- Explaining the use of YAML
- Docker setup

## What works

Huang:
- Defining concepts at the start clearly (Allas, Mycsc account etc.)
- Specific versions of dependencies mentioned in case of problems and solutions to them
- Examples of dictionaries

Jukka:
- The lists of separated system integrations and enviroment tools are really good
- The conclusion to choose certain technologies (for example Python) were clearly justifyed in the document
- Examples of usage of technologies in the document were good

## Suggested improvements

Huang:
- Perhaps naming the hyperlinks? (The useful links)
- Small typos like "cloud enviroment"
- Commands highlighted
- If abbreviations are used, would be nice to be included in the defining part
- If there is time, screenshots or guidevideos usually help visually, especially to complete newbies

Jukka:
- Naming could be done on the links in the notebook file of the useful material lists
- Not all of the examples aren't completely clear in every step (Pydantic and YAML)
- Simplified and more visual presentations or animations could work for the data scientist who are going to be using these platforms
- We could have a hierarcical view of the technologies and the correlations between them

## Questions
- Why do we need YAML & Pydantic in the project (What does the JSON validation and YAML's pydantic validation mean?)?

# Part 2 (estimated time: H:2h; J:1,5h; Together:1h)

[Link to part 2](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_2.ipynb)

## Summary
- Explanation of FastAPI and how Submitter and Kubernetes Forwarder communicate through the Uvicorn server
- Explanation of the FastApi logs, application file structure and important parts of the fastApi. Document also tells how APIRouters and their routes work
- Docker Compose explained and how to use it
- Redis explained and how to use it
- Examples of using the created/stored Redis pickled data 

## What works

Huang:
- The structure of separating the application into smaller files, easier to pinpoint possible issues
- The useful materials themselves are nice and clear

Jukka: 
- How to check localhost and the fastapi logs is valuable help
- Explaining of the fastapi is done very well. The important parts list is good
- Examples of how to use the commands are clear
- The entire document is much more clearer than the first one because there are fewer new technologies and the correlation between everything is much more clearer

## Suggested improvements

Huang:
- A bit confusing at first where commands should be typed, what directory etc. (initial installation or some separate app?)
- Concrete examples or more explanation on different factors, difficult to imagine without prior experience
- Naming conventions on "useful material", step-by-step guiding because initial assumption is just "extra material"
- What are the things in braces for? (Between the Redis configurations)
- Re-enacting steps should bring similar results each time

Jukka:
- The examples could include videos and animations
- Summary of the most important things in the end of the document

## Questions
- Is it okay to assume that data scientist are able to use the technologies only by reading this documentary if they don't have any prior experience with software development?
- Could there be a better alternative for the examples that show the coding in practice? Could the examples be better explained in the documentary? (Redis in the end of this document)

# Part 3 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 3](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_3.ipynb)

## Summary

- Celery with Redis works as a message broker, automating interactions between separate containers and systems
- Flower enables easier monitoring and debugging of Celery tasks
- Celery Beat enables scheduling of Celery tasks
- Explaining the use of Microservice Architectures

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 4 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 4](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_4.ipynb)

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 5 (estimated time: )

[Link to part 5](https://github.com/K123AsJ0k1/multi-cloud-hpc-oss-mlops-platform/blob/studying/tutorials/integration/studying/tutorial_for_integration_part_5.ipynb)

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements

# Part 6 (estimated time: )

Coming soon!

## Summary

## What works

## Suggested improvements
